ah such a beautiful day isn't it
it is until it all goes boom that's
gravity disappearing for just a second
let's recap the events from the smallest
to the largest scale
we'll start with you yes you if gravity
is lost for a single second
unfortunately you'll most probably be no
more
thing is gravity doesn't only keep you
anchored to the earth
it also holds all the atoms inside your
body together
if this force completely disappears even
for such a short period of time
chances are you'll simply fly apart
if you don't then you'll start floating
above the ground
not high though because one second isn't
enough to fly too far away
if the gravity stops working only for
you then you'll levitate a little over
an inch upwards
and then fall back without consequences
your thoughts will be occupied by the
lack of oxygen in your lungs though
because with no gravity your blood will
stop pumping
now if it affects the surrounding
objects as well you'll be lucky to be
away from home
because everything around you will float
too and after a second
all your cutlery your bed your wardrobes
etc
will smash down on the floor luckily
buildings and trees will probably stay
put
because they're strongly rooted in the
ground by their own means
still the picture won't be pretty and
it'll be up to you to clean that mess
ah shucks by the way you surely know our
planet is spinning
and hurtling through space at
mind-blowing speeds
so there's a chance that if gravity does
turn off for a second
everything on the earth's surface will
succumb to inertia
and fly horizontally at several hundred
miles per hour
that will be an even bigger mess but
only if everything retains its mass
if it doesn't then it should be no
problem
maybe yeah the real trouble starts if
the gravity disappears for the entire
planet
the force of gravity is equal to the
pressure from inside the earth
and if the outside pressure is gone
nothing will stop the molten innards of
our planet from
bursting onto the surface an immense
earthquake will begin
all over the earth as the tectonic
plates move upwards
also all the world's volcanoes will
probably erupt too
since the lava will be pumped up with
the pressure if such a mega eruption
occurs
no life will survive except the
sturdiest of creatures
such as tardigrades the clouds of
volcanic ash will spread across the
whole planet
blocking the sun at first the
temperatures will rise due to the
greenhouse effect
but then the planet will cool down and a
new
ice age will begin optimistic this will
all happen even if the gravity returns
after a second
because the motion will already start
and it'll take a more powerful force to
calm it down
up above the atmosphere of the earth
will simply evaporate
the air we breathe is also kept around
the planet by the force of gravity
so if it pops we'll have nothing to fill
our lungs with
when the gravity comes back in a second
the atmosphere will eventually gather
itself back
but the damage will have been done
already it will take a lot of time for
the air to return to its original
composition
meanwhile in space things are even worse
as far as we know everything in the
universe is held together by gravity
including other planets stars galaxies
and even galactic clusters
on a cosmic scale our planet is but a
fluck of dust
having a really tiny mass the sun is
incredibly huge by comparison
it's 109 times bigger in diameter
and over 300 thousand times more massive
which is why its gravity
is able to keep so many planets in its
orbit
and now that enormous force is just poof
even though it's only a second the
immense pressure of gas from inside our
star makes it explode
sending a heat wave far greater than
anything we've ever experienced in
history
now the sun will most likely survive
because a second is too
short a period of time for the star to
inflate too much
but the same can't be said about mercury
venus earth
and probably mars too mercury being the
closest
will probably be simply incinerated the
temperature on venus is already
extremely high
but it will spike even more scorching
its surface
good thing it's not inhabited and bad
thing that earth
is the heat wave from the sun will
probably obliterate our atmosphere first
and then do the same with the surface so
from the looks of it
nothing will be able to survive again
oh well but that's not even close to the
end
our sun is one of the smallest stars in
the universe the biggest known one being
about 1
500 times larger and more massive if
such a giant loses its gravity
for a second everything around it for
millions upon millions of miles
will simply disintegrate including other
smaller stars
but the objects with the most mass and
as a result
the most gravity are neutron stars and
black holes
both of them are extremely small for
their mass like me
but the pressure inside them is so
immense that the loss of gravity for
even a fraction of a second
might mean a tremendous space explosion
and with a whole second
it's basically warranted nobody knows
for sure though
how black holes operate so there's a
chance that something else will happen
with them
or nothing at all finally on the largest
scale
if gravity decides to take a second long
break
surprisingly nothing much will happen
planets will mostly retain their orbits
although they might change a little bit
and if we talk about galaxies or
galactic clusters
those won't even notice anything the
biggest changes will be local because
as i said earlier stars will explode and
the larger the blast
the more it will affect the neighboring
celestial bodies
for example if a star large enough sends
a wave of energy in the direction of our
solar system
it might send asteroids flying toward us
from the oort cloud
those space rocks fall onto the moon and
even earth quite regularly
but they're mostly rather small the ones
sent to us by a star explosion however
might be a lot bigger and more dangerous
we will be protected by other planets
but still the chances of collision will
be a lot higher than normal
but who cares really we'll be toast by
then
obviously this is all just speculation
nobody knows for sure what'll happen if
gravity suddenly decides to stop working
even for a second what we know though is
that it can't happen without numerous
laws of physics being broken all at once
scientists are pretty certain such a
turning off is impossible altogether
for this to happen everything in the
universe will have to lose its mass
first mass is the main reason things
have gravity
so the heavier the object the more
gravity it has
even you have it it's just so small that
you can't feel it
but if you were several million times
more massive
you'd probably be the center of
everyone's attention
hey i'd use that opportunity